Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is a programing language?
A. A programming language is a set of commands, instructions, and other syntax use to create a software program.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.The JDK is the Java Development Kit, the full-featured SDK for Java. It has everything the JRE has, but also the
  compiler (javac) and tools (like javadoc and jdb). It is capable of creating and compiling programs. If you want to
  only run a Java Program you need the JRE. But if you are planning to do some Java programming, you need to install
  the JDK instead. The JRE is the Java Runtime Environment. It is a package of everything necessary to run a compiled
  Java program, including the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), the Java Class Library, the java command, and other
  infrastructure.

What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment. It is a code editor accessed through a user interface.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Editor, Java Compiler, Java Virtual Machine, Operating System.

What is class?
A. It is a blueprint for which objects are created in.

What is object?
A. Data type

What is the entry point of an application?
A. The main method is the entry point of a Java application.

Why main is static?
A. It is static so it can be directly implemented within the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. The object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is an environment variable used by the operating system to find the executables. Classpath is used by the Java compiler to find the pah of jar files.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface cannot be instantiated and abstract class can have instance methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. You cannot make an object.

What is Access Specifier?

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object Oriented Programming. Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, Encapsulation

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Organises a set of related classes and interfaces. Default package is imported

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. Application Programming Interface.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. It does not support mulitple inheritances but only multiple interfaces.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. It changes the logic of the method

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Disrupts the normal flow of the program instructions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. It means it belongs to the type not the object.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. It is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final cant be inherited, Finally will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used to clean up processing.

What is a constructor ?
A. A special method that is used to initialize objects.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes you can.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. Default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A.The keyword that refers to the reference variable.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. Calls all the variables, constructors and methods from the child to the parent class.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A. Yes

What version of java are you using?
A. 11

What is JAR stand for ?
A. Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JRE is the container, JVM is the content

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JRE is the container and JVM is the content

What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile time is when we write the code and the run time is when we read the code.

How java manage it's memory?
Answer: By collecting garbage once object are not in need anymore.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer: String once assigned can not be changed. StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object .

What is Singleton class?
Answer: A class that can be used once.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams. The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.

when to use transient variable in java?
Answer: When the object won't be serialized during serialization.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Answer: In while loop the condition is checked first, in do while the code executes and then check the condition.

What is Enum?
Answer: Enum is a data type consisting of a set of named values called elements, members, enumeral, or enumerators of the type.

What is Iterator?
Answer: An iterator is an object that enables a programmer to traverse a container, particularly lists.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Answer: int = Integer.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Answer: Because String objects are cached in String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer: Constructors in Java. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer: A serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one garbage collector thread for the garbage collector operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple garbage collection threads for the garbage collection operation.

What is JIT stands for?
Answer: Just I =n Time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Answer: Garbage collection is the process of freeing space in the heap or the nursery for allocation of new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer: No.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer: Whenever an object is created, it's always stored in the Heap space and stack memory contains the reference to it. Stack memory only contains local primitive variables and reference variables to objects in heap space.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Answer: Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods and it is useful because it supports dynamic retrieval of information about classes and data structures by name, and allows for their manipulation within an executing Java program.

what is multithreading in java?
Answer: Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. Thread is basically a lightweight sub-process, a smallest unit of processing. Multiprocessing and multithreading, both are used to achieve multitasking.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Answer: Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.

What is Framework?
Answer: Framework is a broad software development platforms.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Answer: Unit, JWalk, Mockito, TestNG, JwebUnit, TagUnit, HTMLUnit, Arquillian.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Answer: TestNG is more advance in parameterize testing, dependency testing and suite testing.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer: gson-2.6.2.jar
        java-jason.jar
        javax.jason.jar
        mongo-java-driver-3.4.0.jar
        mysql-connector-java-8.0.13.jar
        testng-6.8.7.jar

what is dependency injection in java?
Answer: When dependency injection is used, a Java class can be tested in isolation.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Answer: Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.









